Add CWT Claims (RFC9597) to Signed CoRIM (#479)
ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim: draft-ietf-rats-corim.md

informative:
  RFC7519: jwt
  RFC7942:

>   RFC9334: rats-arch

Reviewer: why does this remove rats arch from informative?

The following CDDL specification defines a restrictive subset of COSE header
parameters that MUST be used in the protected header alongside additional

> information about the CoRIM encoded in a `CWT-Claims` ({{-CWT_CLAIMS_COSE}})
> or as a legacy alternative in a `corim-meta-map` ({{sec-corim-meta}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
information about the CoRIM encoded in a `corim-meta-map` ({{sec-corim-meta}}) or alternatively in a `CWT-Claims` ({{-CWT_CLAIMS_COSE}}).
```
The existing wording seems to suggest the current sec-corim-meta is deprecated or might be deprecated in the future. We didn't discuss this as tobe deprecated, so different wording is needed.

Author: We did discuss this at length, there are traces in writing as well: https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/pull/479#discussion_r2288360365

{::include cddl/protected-corim-header-map.cddl}
~~~

The CoRIM protected header map uses some common COSE header parameters plus additional metadata.

> Additional metadata can either be carried in a `CWT_Claims` (index: 15) parameter as defined by {{-CWT_CLAIMS_COSE}}, or in a `corim-meta` map, described in {{sec-corim-meta}}.

Reviewer 2: > I have had a stab at making those changes

excellent stuff, thanks!

> […] except the historical justification where I need input.

Perhaps something like:

  _The corim-meta map was introduced at a time when RFC 9597, which defines CWT_Claims, was not available in any form.  Now that RFC9597 has been published as a proposed standard, it makes sense to migrate away from the custom corim-meta and reuse a standard COSE ecosystem component instead._

> Additional metadata can either be carried in a `CWT_Claims` (index: 15) parameter as defined by {{-CWT_CLAIMS_COSE}}, or in a `corim-meta` map, described in {{sec-corim-meta}}.

Author: @thomas-fossati done, thank you!

* `alg` (index 1): An integer that identifies a signature algorithm.

* `content-type` (index 3): A string that represents the "MIME Content type" carried in the CoRIM payload.

At least one of:

* `CWT-Claims` (index 15): A map that contains metadata associated with a signed CoRIM.
  Described in {{-CWT_CLAIMS_COSE}}.

* `corim-meta` (index 8): A map that contains metadata associated with a signed CoRIM.
  Described in {{sec-corim-meta}}. This is supported for compatibility with legacy
  documents, but `CWT-Claims` is recommended for new documents.

Documents MAY include both `CWT-Claims` and `corim-meta` to ease transition for verifiers, in which case the signer MUST ensure that their contents are semantically identical: the `CWT-Claims` issuer (`iss`) MUST have the same value as `signer-name` in `corim-meta`, and the `nbf` and `exp` values in the `CWT-Claims` MUST match the `signature-validity` in `corim-meta`.

Additional data can be included in the COSE header map as per ({{Section 3 of -cose}}).

### CWT Claims {#cwt-claims}

The CWT Claims ({{-CWT_CLAIMS_COSE}}) map identifies the entity that created and signed the CoRIM.

> This ensures the consumer is able to identify credentials used to authenticate its signer.

Author: ```suggestion
This ensures the consumer is able to identify credentials used to authenticate its signer.
The CWT Claims map SHOULD NOT be used to carry any claims than identifying claims, to avoid any possible ambiguity with the CoRIM tags contained in the payload.
```

Author: @henkbirkholz @yogeshbdeshpande please review the above proposed change.

{::include cddl/protected-corim-header-map.cddl}
~~~

The CoRIM protected header map uses some common COSE header parameters plus additional metadata.
Additional metadata can either be carried in a `CWT_Claims` (index: 15) parameter as defined by {{-CWT_CLAIMS_COSE}},

> or in a `corim-meta` map as a legacy alternative, described in {{sec-corim-meta}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or in a `corim-meta` map described in {{sec-corim-meta}}.
```

The following describes each child item of this map.

* `alg` (index 1): An integer that identifies a signature algorithm.

* `content-type` (index 3): A string that represents the "MIME Content type" carried in the CoRIM payload.

At least one of:

* `CWT-Claims` (index 15): A map that contains metadata associated with a signed CoRIM.
  Described in {{-CWT_CLAIMS_COSE}}.

* `corim-meta` (index 8): A map that contains metadata associated with a signed CoRIM.

>   Described in {{sec-corim-meta}}. This is supported for compatibility with legacy
>   documents, but `CWT-Claims` is recommended for new documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Described in {{sec-corim-meta}}.
```
I disagree with the bias toward using CWT-Claims and not using sec-corim-meta

> Documents MAY include both `CWT-Claims` and `corim-meta` to ease transition for verifiers, in which case the signer MUST ensure that their contents are semantically identical: the `CWT-Claims` issuer (`iss`) MUST have the same value as `signer-name` in `corim-meta`, and the `nbf` and `exp` values in the `CWT-Claims` MUST match the `signature-validity` in `corim-meta`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Documents MAY include both `CWT-Claims` and `corim-meta` to ease transition for Verifiers, in which case the signer MUST ensure that their contents are semantically identical: the `CWT-Claims` issuer (`iss`) MUST have the same value as `signer-name` in `corim-meta`, and the `nbf` and `exp` values in the `CWT-Claims` MUST match the `signature-validity` in `corim-meta`.
```

> Documents MAY include both `CWT-Claims` and `corim-meta` to ease transition for Verifiers, in which case the signer MUST ensure that their contents are semantically identical: the `CWT-Claims` issuer (`iss`) MUST have the same value as `signer-name` in `corim-meta`, and the `nbf` and `exp` values in the `CWT-Claims` MUST match the `signature-validity` in `corim-meta`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Documents MAY include both `CWT-Claims` and `corim-meta`, in which case the signer MUST ensure that their contents are semantically identical: the `CWT-Claims` issuer (`iss`) MUST have the same value as `signer-name` in `corim-meta`, and the `nbf` and `exp` values in the `CWT-Claims` MUST match the `signature-validity` in `corim-meta`.
```

Additional data can be included in the COSE header map as per ({{Section 3 of -cose}}).

### CWT Claims {#cwt-claims}

The CWT Claims ({{-CWT_CLAIMS_COSE}}) map identifies the entity that created and signed the CoRIM.
This ensures the consumer is able to identify credentials used to authenticate its signer.
To avoid any possible ambiguity with the contents of the CoRIM tags, the CWT Claims map MUST NOT contain claims that have semantic overlap with the information contained in CoRIM tags.

The following describes each child item of this group.

* `iss` (index 1): Issuer or signer for the CoRIM, formerly `signer-name` or `signer-uri` in {{sec-corim-signer}}.

> * `sub` (index 2): Subject or description for the CoRIM.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* `sub` (index 2): Optional - identifies the CoRIM document, equivalent to a string representation of $corim-id-type-choice
```

Additional data can be included in the CWT Claims, as per {{-CWT}}, such as:

* `exp` (index 4): Expiration time, formerly `signature-validity` in {{sec-common-validity}}.

* `nbf` (index 5): Not before time, formerly `signature-validity` in {{sec-common-validity}}.

> ### Meta Map (Legacy) {#sec-corim-meta}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Meta Map {#sec-corim-meta}
```

The CoRIM meta map identifies the entity or entities that create and sign the CoRIM.
This ensures the consumer is able to identify credentials used to authenticate its signer.

> This map was introduced at a time when RFC9597, which defines CWT-Claims, was not available in any form.
> Now that RFC9597 has been published as a proposed standard, it makes sense to migrate away from the custom `corim-meta`
> and reuse a standard COSE ecosystem component instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: It is not the intent to deprecate corim-meta-map or bias toward us of CWT-Claims

Additional metadata can either be carried in a `CWT_Claims` (index: 15) parameter as defined by {{-CWT_CLAIMS_COSE}},
or in a `corim-meta` map as a legacy alternative, described in {{sec-corim-meta}}.

The following describes each child item of this map.

* `alg` (index 1): An integer that identifies a signature algorithm.

* `content-type` (index 3): A string that represents the "MIME Content type" carried in the CoRIM payload.

One of:

* `CWT-Claims` (index 15): A map that contains metadata associated with a signed CoRIM.
  Described in {{-CWT_CLAIMS_COSE}}.

* `corim-meta` (index 8): A map that contains metadata associated with a signed CoRIM.
  Described in {{sec-corim-meta}}. This is supported for compatibility with legacy
  documents, but `CWT-Claims` is recommended for new documents.

Additional data can be included in the COSE header map as per ({{Section 3 of -cose}}).

### CWT Claims {#cwt-claims}

The CWT Claims ({{-CWT_CLAIMS_COSE}}) map identifies the entity that created and signed the CoRIM.
This ensures the consumer is able to identify credentials used to authenticate its signer.

~~~ cddl
{::include cddl/cwt-claims.cddl}

> ~~~

Author: @andrew-draper if this works, can you click "Commit suggestion"?

> 

Reviewer 5: Can we replace this with a reference?

Author: There is a reference online 565 already, so I am proposing removing it above.

> The following describes each child item of this group.

Author: ```suggestion
The following is an informative description of child items of this group.
```

* `signer-uri` (index 1): A URI identifying the same organization

* `$$corim-signer-map-extension`: Extension point for future expansion of the
  Signer map.

> 

Reviewer: Why are we removing extensibility? For example, it will be easier to add vLEI and whatever WIMSE comes up with in the future.

The Collection CMW type for a CoRIM collection SHALL be `tag:{{&SELF}}:corim`.

A COSE_Sign1-signed CoRIM Collection CMW has a similar requirement to a signed CoRIM.

> The signing operation MUST include at least a `CWT-Claims` or a `corim-meta` in the COSE_Sign1 `protected-header` parameter.
> These metadata containers ensure that each CoRIM in the collection has an identified signer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The signing operation MUST include either a `CWT-Claims` or a `corim-meta` and MAY contain both, in the COSE_Sign1 `protected-header` parameter.
These metadata containers ensure that each CoRIM in the collection has an identified signer.
```
